Okay.
So I am pretty happy with the tests for the job listing component.
The one detail that I think we're missing is the computed property right here job page link that represents
the dynamic URL that we are generating based on the job objects ID property.
We're not testing this anywhere.
So I'd like to write a test for this logic, which of course means we can pass any job object with an
ID of our choosing and where we are using this computed property is in the router link components right
here.
We're passing that computed property to the two prop of the router and component, and that's really
the interaction I want to test.
I want to test that job listing gives the right value to the two property of a separate component.
I don't care how the component deals with that value, I just care that I'm giving that component the
right value.
So I say, let's write a test where we mount job listing, where we find the router line component,
where we check its props, where we find the value of the two prop, and we ensure that it is the right
URL string based on the idea of the job that we pass in.
So right here.
I'm going to add a new test and it's going to be it links to individual jobs page.
I'm going to provide my arrow function here.
And as always, we're going to start by coming up with our job object or specifically the properties
that we care about.
So right here.
Job props.
I'm going to invoke my create job props function from above and I'm going to pass in an object with
the properties I want to define.
I really only care about the ID property here, so I'll provide an ID property and I'll give it an arbitrary
value of 15.
Down below we can mount our job listing component.
So content wrapper is going to be mounting our job listing component and then we're going to create
a configuration object by invoking the create config function passing in our job props.
So now we have the exact job object that we want for that component.
The next thing I want to do is to find a router link right here.
So we're going to try our original approach of looking for a data test attribute, but as we'll find
out, it's not going to work.
I still want to show you the error we encounter and then we'll talk about why it's happening.
But let's for now, pretend that we're going to search for some element in our template with that data
test attribute.
So right here, I'm going to call it job page link.
I'm assuming somewhere in my template there's going to be a link to the individual job page, and I'm
going to assume that that element is going to have a data test attribute equal to job page link.
Again, this value is totally up to me.
Just remember the syntax for the data test attribute is square brackets, then the data test.
Then single single quotes for the string in line right there.
Then when we have a certain view test utils wrapper object just like we have here in wrapper.
And our hope is we have a very similar one here.
We can call a method on that object called props.
And props is going to give us access to that components props and we can pass that method a string representing
the prop whose value we want to pull out.
So if we have our job page link and we assume that's going to be our router link component right here,
we can try to access its props and specifically we want to get its to prop.
We can see it right here.
So I'm going to pass the props method, the string of to representing that to prop.
So I'm going to save this to a constant call to prop.
And my hope is that this is a string that is equal to my dynamic URL.
So in the next line I will assert that I expect to prop to be and what is the string that we expect?
We expect it to be slash jobs, slash results, followed by the idea of the job which we get from the
job object.
In this case, it's 15.
So our final URL should be slash jobs, slash results, slash 15.
So I'm going to save this and let's see what happens.
We should get a test failure.
And we do indeed.
We can see cannot call props on an empty DOM wrapper, which tells us this line right here that the
test utils was not able to find anything in our template with that attribute.
So let's go ahead and add it up top.
So right here, I'll go to my first router link component and right here I will add data test.
Jab page link, making sure to match exactly what I have on the right hand side.
And when I save this, we're going to see we're still not actually passing.
So you can see here we're getting to this different type of error, a type error that says job page
link props is not a function, so it is finding something.
But that object that it is returning does not have the props methods.
So what is going on here?
Well, unfortunately, the code we have here doesn't work with a data test implementation because what
this find method returns is the native HTML dom element.
So however, the view router team developed rattling under the hood like maybe it's a dev or maybe it's
an anchor tag, we don't know.
But this code right here is finding that native HTML element.
It's not actually identifying the concept of a component.
In Vue terms, this is a little bit too close to the final HTML that we are going to see in our browser.
So we need a way to tell our test to find a specific component.
And in order to do that, we're going to do a slightly different approach.
Instead of using a data test, actually, we're going to find we're going to use rather a method that
is available directly on any wrapper and that is find component right here.
I'm going to write find component.
And there's actually a variety of different arguments we can pass to find component.
And one of them is the component that we're looking for.
And the test is going to find that view component in our template.
It's going to find the first occurrence of it to be more exact.
So in this case, this is our first occurrence of the OR component.
But how do we specify to search for that component?
Well, we already have imported into this test file the router link stub, which we are using in our
configuration to stub out the router link component.
So remember that whenever our test suite mounts our job listing component, whenever it sees a router
link, it is replacing it with the router link stub.
So from the tests perspective, it's not seeing router link, it's seeing router link stub.
So this is the component that we can actually search for.
And since we have this component available directly in this file, we can actually pass that component
as an argument to my job page link or rather find component method right here.
So router link stub, we're going to tell our view test utils in our wrapper for the job listing component,
find the rattling stub component.
And because that is a component, it is going to have the props method available.
The two prop will be available and we're going to double check and see that it is indeed this string.
We can see that our test is passing right here.
And just to show you it fail.
I'm going to change this to something like ten.
And we're going to see now that Jess is going to tell us that it expected to get slashed ten, but it's
getting slashed 15, which is exactly the URL that we expect, given that our object for the job has
an idea of 15.
So that confirms that we are getting to the right task, that we are finding the right component, that
we are extracting the right prop, and it's simply a string mismatch.
So that's exactly what we expect.
I'm going to change this back to 15 and because we do not need the data test attribute anymore, we
can remove it right here.
So with that, I think we really are testing all of the properties of the job object that flows in as
a prop anywhere.
It's being used right here with job page link, which we generate dynamically right here with the title
property organization, locations and minimum qualifications.
This job link is the same thing.
So we have really captured, I think, the heart of this component.
And notice how each test is kind of small and short.
And once again, customizing the specific job object to focus on what that test cares about.
So I like where we are now.
And then the very next lesson, we can move on to testing the higher level parent component, which
is the job listings component, where we fetch all of the original jobs and render the job listing components
in the first place.
So I will see you there.